#summary More information about how Longhouse works and what its features are.
#labels Featured

= More Information About Longhouse =

== Persistence Layer ==

Longhouse stores the data related to your projects in XML files. Optionally, you can have these XML files committed to a remote Subversion repository of your choosing. In the future,
you'll be able to install a commit hook onto a repository, which will allow you to update these XML files from your Subversion server and have
Longhouse automatically take your updates into account.

If you want to have your XML files stored to your Subversion repository, use the Persistence tool in the Administer tab in a project you own.  They'll get committed to the repository you specify there when they're changed via the Web UI.

If you don't want this functionality, just leave the field in the Persistence tool blank.

== What Features Aren't Implemented Yet? ==

Depending on the version of Longhouse you're running, some things might not be implemented yet. Here's a list of things that aren't implemented at the time of the last update of this page. We'll update this page and remove these items from this list when they get implemented.

List for release 0.1:

  * Search engine
  * Downloads
  * Wiki
  * Source code browsing
  * Downloads, Wiki and Issue Tracker configuration management
  * Activity notifications
  * Google Analytics integration
  * User preference modification

== FAQ/Troubleshooting ==

Check the [FAQTroubleshoot FAQ/Troubleshooting page] if you have any other questions.