#summary Information on how to use Longhouse to host and manage projects.
#labels Featured

= Using Longhouse =

== Registering an Account ==

To start using Longhouse, you need to register an account. From the Longhouse home page, click "create a new account." Then, supply your email address and a password. You need to enter your password twice - this makes sure that you aren't mistyping your password.

Once you register, you'll be logged in and redirected back to the log in page.

Longhouse may require you to validate your account before using it. If this is the case, you'll see text reading `Account Not Yet Validated` in the top-right corner of your screen, next to the drop-down menu of projects. If you need to validate your account, check your email - Longhouse will send a validation key for you to use to validate.

Once your account is validated, you can create projects and participate in existing projects.

== Creating a Project ==

To create a project, click "Create a new project" on the front page once you are logged in and your account is validated.

First, choose an appropriate project name in lowercase letters, numerical digits and dashes.

Next, choose your repository location. The "Repository URL" field is the address of the Subversion repository that houses the source for your project. If you don't want to have your source code linked from your project, just skip this field.

Use the Summary, Description and Tags fields to provide some information about what your project is.

If you're confused about what license to release your project under, visit the links that show in the right sidebar when you click on the License menu and determine which license you want.

Once you've created your project you'll be redirected to the project home page. If you leave your project page, you can get back to it easily by using the drop-down menu at the top right! It lists all the projects you're a member of.

== Administering Your Project ==

Visit the "Administer" tab to administer your project.

Use the Project Summary tool to change some of the information you specified when you created the project. You can also add links to websites and blogs that relate to your project, and you can specify several important email addresses to use as discussion groups or to be notified when activity happens in your project.

Use the Persistence tool to specify where Longhouse should commit the XML files that describe your project's data. If you don't want this to happen, just leave these fields blank.

Use the Project Members tool to control the membership of your project. Add or delete email addresses of users registered in the system and they'll receive or lose privileges to create and modify issues, Wiki pages and downloads in your project.

Use the Downloads, Wiki and Issue Tracking configuration tools to change how those sections of your project's site look and operate.

Use the Advanced tool to change the visibility of your project, or to schedule it for deletion.

== Using Your Project ==

To use your project page in Longhouse, you can create Issues, Downloads and Wiki pages.

Issues are the most important tool for allowing collaboration. If there's a problem that you want to be fixed, a task you want to be performed, or any other item you want to report, post an issue and specify what you want to communicate. Use the description templates if you're confused about what might be helpful to people viewing your issue, and use tags to give information about the issue.

Post a download to give users the ability to download a file. Use tags to help describe it.

Create Wiki pages to have a space to document your project, or use them for discussion.